(hip-hop music playing)
ABBY: Welcome to Las Vegas.
CATHY: Candy Apples Dance Center
is going to meet up
with the Abby Lee dancers at a competition
and we're going to go head to head.
ALL: Hollywood here we come.
She looks like she has (bleep)
on the bottom of her pants.
Everybody gets a new costume
every week and I get (bleep).
I'm using a hotel chair, for God sakes.
But if this was anybody else,
they'd have a hot pink (bleep) chair
with rhinestones all over it.
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms.
Ladies, here we are
in Los Angeles, California,
the city of dreams.
(screaming)
Surprise.
-Hi everybody.
-What are you doing here?
Alls I want is for my kids
to get good choreography.
For you to be unhappy
with your choreography is a joke.
ABBY: Right in the middle of rehearsal
I get a phone call from my mom.
I am here and my mother is in a hospital.
How about if you do this dance
for Ms. Miller?
Okay
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up, get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls ♪
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: This week,
I expect big things from Hollywood.
Thank you
Finally.
ABBY: While we're here,
we rented the same studio
that Britney Spears
and Lady Gaga rehearse in.
Nothing's too good for my girls.
(blows whistle)
Let's go, come on, no time to waste.
Ladies, here we are
in Los Angeles, California,
for the iHollywood national finals.
And you are in the city of dreams.
CHRISTI: LA is our last competition
before the final nationals,
of course we want to do well here.
We want to set the tone for what
we're going to do in Tahoe.
There are going to be children
that you recognize.
The kids that are in movies.
The kids that are on television.
These kids here in Los Angeles
audition on a weekly basis.
They are pros.
iHollywood is relatively small
because it draws a very
select group of people.
People that really want to work
professionally in the industry.
So the competition
is very small but fierce.
Maddie, your mom's not here again.
We all make choices.
She chose to be away
instead of being here with you.
Melissa's not here at iHollywood.
She's spending time with her boyfriend.
All of those things that go
into motherhood,
those are the things that Melissa
trusts me with her children.
So the two of you are going
to be with me this week.
And you may get to do things
that everybody else doesn't get to do.
HOLLY: Melissa not being here is weird.
I mean, we're in Hollywood.
She should be here with Maddie.
I'm going to move on
to our lovely pyramid.
In the bottom row and I have...
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Paige and Brooke,
you will not be doing solos.
You will be in the group number.
Now, I've had it out with your mom.
You know what?
From now on, get your own costumes made.
I'll draw the sketch.
Well then you have to hire
the choreographer.
-KELLY: Fine.
-ABBY: Fine.
She has told me that she can find
better choreographers.
I'm sure she can.
This is Los Angeles,
this isn't Pittsburgh.
I have made it perfectly clear.
If Kelly wants her kids to do
independently choreographed solos,
she's not a part of the group number.
So if Kelly wants to go ahead
and enter Paige as an independent soloist
then Paige is out of the group number.
But please understand,
if you go as an independent
you're out, you're finished.
KELLY: We're here in Hollywood
and this is an important competition.
And Abby thinks that it's okay
for Paige not to have a solo.
I mean, it's just ridiculous.
Paige is in Hollywood.
She needs a solo.
She needs to be seen.
So if I have to hire somebody
to choreograph a solo her
then that's what I'm going to do.
Next I have Nia, Mackenzie duet.
(clapping)
So Chloe, you're going to be doing
a solo as well as the group routine.
And no surprise,
Maddie, you're going to be doing
a solo this week.
Now remember, you are undefeated.
People are out to get you.
You're the one to beat.
I put Maddie back on top because
we need to get back to winning.
She is the glue that holds
that group together.
Does everybody understand
how big of an opportunity this is?
Those judges at iHollywood are going
to be people that are
in a capacity to hire you.
They are the people that choreograph
for television and for film.
So it's very important that
you step on stage like pros.
Do you understand?
-Yes.
ABBY: All right, let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: We're good,
let's see it from the top.
(upbeat music playing)
GIANNA: Pick a judge
and stare at them on that.
ABBY: Stare at them.
"My Pumps" is the group routine.
It's fun.
It's artistic.
It's very LA, Hollywood.
There's some sharp
little tweaky stuff in it.
Brooke and Paige are involved
in a group routine.
Kelly can go ahead and try
to enter them as an independent,
and do some other choreographer's routine
that I've never even seen before.
But then they can't be in the group dance
and they're not part
of the Abby Lee Dance Company.
KELLY: How about Abby taking care
of Maddie and MacKenzie?
And her saying, you might do
more things than the group.
Well you know what the hell
that's going to be.
-I know what that going to be.
-Like she's going to be taking them out--
-To be seen.
-CHRISTI: Oh, yeah.
Getting their name out in LA,
while we sit at the pool.
With Melissa being on this week
and Abby taking care
of Maddie and MacKenzie
those girls are going to get
way more attention from Abby
than normal, if that's even possible.
I really am still surprised
that she picked her boyfriend
over her kids.
Like her kids are eight and seven.
That's pretty big.
I would never leave Chloe
in Abby's care, but whatever.
If Melissa wants Maddie to keep dancing,
She's got to keep the boyfriend happy,
because he's the one
paying the dance bills.
Maybe she has to take care
of that relationship
to ensure that this continues.
My boyfriend knows how much
I spend on dance
because he signs the checks.
I guess a girl's got to do
what a girl's got to do.
How about you?
How are you feeling,
with Brooke and Page being at the bottom?
I'm not surprised that
they're at the bottom,
just because of my argument with her.
I think she thought I was like kidding
when I said that, like,
if my kids aren't doing a solo
and she won't teach it to them,
that I wasn't going to get somebody else
to teach them a dance.
I paid all this money to come here
and she wants me to do a group dance.
I don't think so.
How are you going to do this?
Like what are you going open up
the yellow pages
and look for like choreographers?
I actually looked into some choreographers
and I found two that have
really good credentials.
A person can only take so much
and I think Kelly hit her breaking point.
And you know what, good for Kelly.
She's got more courage than I do,
because I don't know if I would
have the nerve to do that.
So hopefully it'll work out.
(laughter)
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Right, left, whack, down, just rock.
All right, come on girls, gather around.
In order to get the kids revved up
about the number and excited,
and in order for them to feel
what I wanted them to feel,
we brought a special guest in.
Girls, I have a big surprise for you.
I have a visitor coming to see us
and she knows everything
about working that stage.
Let's all welcome, Laquifa.
(screaming)
SINGER: ♪ The postmodern pim-what? ♪
♪ They call me Laquifa,
the postmodern pim-what? ♪
♪ Laquifa, what?
Laquifa ♪
And she was like, "Laquifa, what?
Laquifa, what?"
(chuckles)
SINGER: ♪ I said what? I said what? ♪
♪ I said, I said, I said what? ♪
HOLLY: I was speechless.
It was quite a moment.
And it was quite an entrance.
SINGER: ♪ What, what, what, what,
what, what, what, what, what ♪
KELLY: I have never seen
a drag queen before.
(laughs)
SINGER: ♪ I am what, (indistinct) ♪
♪ I am ♪
(cheering)
ABBY: I really wanted Holly and Nia
to see Shangela perform.
Because I want that kid
to embrace her ethnicity.
SINGER: ♪ They call me Laquifa,
the postmodern pim-what? ♪
She can get cast in things
that the other kids can't.
I wouldn't even send them
in for those roles.
But Nia is a Black diva.
And I wanted her to see Shangela,
who is the Black diva.
Well hi, everyone.
My name is Shangela.
Today Miss Abby invited me
in here to tell you guys
a little bit about performance art,
about being sickening,
and about really working it
when you're out there, right?
CHRISTI:
Our kids are fascinated with Laquifa.
It could be Santa Claus
that walked in that door
and I don't think she would've got--
or he would have gotten
a better reaction than Laquifa.
Maybe I can teach you guys the death drop.
-(gasps) Uh, yeah!
-Listen.
The death drop really is safe.
You're not falling on your back.
But okay, so here we go.
My pumps... (vocalizing)
My pumps.
Just like that.
And that's the move, okay?
HOLLY:
At least Shangela's not wearing an afro.
And I am happy that Nia's finally
getting some special attention from Abby.
She really deserves it.
So Nia, on the ending we're going
to put that trick in there, okay?
And let me tell you something,
the crowd is going to go wild.
So we're going to come on, and go--
do your hip, hip, hip, hip,
and then wipe, whew.
And then death drop, pow.
Yes, now instead of falling
just here first
and then laying,
try just releasing
going straight back, okay?
They're going to say, "Oh, my Lord,
what did she do?"
You feel good?
You're ready, I know you're ready.
HOLLY: I'm like, oh, my gosh.
To be honest with you,
my stomach is in knots.
I have a lump in my throat.
I'm not sure Nia can pull that off.
-(cars passing)
-(quirky music playing)
(bird crowing)
(cow mooing)
CATHY: Justice, why don't you
and Vivi just hold hands?
All right, okay smile, faces.
While Abby and her precious little dancers
are out in Hollywood,
I'm at Candy Apples command center
plotting my revenge.
Contestants number 238 in a duet,
Justice and Vivi.
After evaluating our time
with the Abby Lee dancers,
and not feeling like Abby was utilizing
Vivi the way she should have...
Strum your guitar like your...
Yeah, Slim Pickens.
Go, go, go, go, go, go, head, head, head,
head, head, head, head, head, head.
I thought that maybe it was time
that Abby see a little bit
about what Candy Apples
Dance Center was made of.
Okay, Vivi get that leg up,
one, two, three, four.
So we found out where
the Abby Lee Dance Company
was going to be heading
and I went back into my dance studio
and started to work on some team dances.
So I just wanted to talk to you
a little bit about the girl
that we're going up against.
Her name is Chloe and Abby
holds a lot of stock in her.
So here's the catch.
I happen to have, in my hand,
your solo music,
which is gorgeous.
But I also happen to know
that it's the same solo music
that Chloe is using.
It's no secret that you can go online
and find out what the songs are
that the contestants are dancing to.
So I chose Chloe's song for Taylor,
just to psych them out.
When I show up in Hollywood,
that Abby Lee Miller is not
going to know what hit her.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Paige, point your opposite foot.
Faces!
GIANNA: Nia, I already told you
about that degage.
(phone ringing)
ABBY: Right in the middle
of my rehearsal here,
I get a phone call from my mom.
Hey Gia, I need you do something out here.
Okay.
ABBY: She has been admitted
into the hospital.
I don't know what's wrong yet.
(somber music playing)
I need somebody to get online
or your phone.
And tell me what time it is.
Because I am flying out to Orlando.
Try and find me a flight.
GIANNA: All right.
I can't tell her what time I'm coming.
(upbeat music playing)
-Hi.
-Hi, how are you guys?
KELLY: I want my kids
to feel like they're special.
It seems like every week
that Maddie and Chloe
are getting the best choreography,
and my kids get whatever's left over.
And I'm tired of it.
-I'm Kelly.
-Mike, it's so nice to meet you, Kelly.
This is this my daughter, Paige.
MIKE: Hi, Paige.
So this week in Los Angeles,
I took it in my own hands
and I'm hiring Paige
her own choreographer.
I think Abby just kind of pushes her aside
and I wanted to try to get her
some better choreography
that will work for her.
Totally.
We're really short on time.
I think she's a little nervous about that.
MIKE: Well, we'll work
at whatever pace you need.
And I've danced with Lady Gaga,
Kesha, Adam Lambert,
so you're in good hands.
Don't (indistinct) sickled back foot.
I'm not stupid.
I know what's going on behind my back.
There's another choreographer
right in the other room,
working with Paige.
In the 30-plus years that Kelly
has claimed to be at my studio,
I've never completely trusted her loyalty.
It kind of reminds me of Cathy's loyalty.
CATHY: We've got to show Mackenzie
and Nia that you were so much
more capable of what Abby gave you.
Vivi had a duet that she didn't get
to show what she was capable of.
SINGER: ♪ Summer seems to go so fast ♪
♪ I guess the good times never last ♪
CATHY: Now dancing with Justice,
they're doing so much more
than her and Mackenzie did
under Abby's watchful eye.
We've got to prove to her
that she didn't use us
the way we should have been used.
So when we get out to California
and we go to the competition
where the Abby Lee Dance Company is,
we are going to have a showdown.
(spinning sound effect)
-(upbeat music playing)
-You hit one, two, three, four, five.
The arm will swing on five.
PAIGE: I'm kind of nervous
for the new choreography
because Mike doesn't know me
like Abby does.
And I'm scared Abby's going
to be really mad at me.
-(somber music playing)
-Five, six, seven.
KELLY: Mike is very busy.
He told me he only has
a short amount of time
to teach her this number.
We have today to learn the dance.
-(upbeat music playing)
-Straight across, boom, boom, boom.
CATHY: One and two, three, and four...
I think that with Taylor going up
against Chloe and having the same song,
We've got a shoo-in for a win.
Five, six, seven, eight.
Turn it one, two.
ABBY: Faster. Turn.
CHLOE: I was assigned a solo
called "Dream on a Star."
And I want to have my big moment in LA
and I want to win pretty badly.
But then, I also have to remember
I'm also having fun.
Go right after the show.
-Because your mom?
-Yeah.
Is she okay?
Is she doing okay?
ABBY: No, she's in the hospital,
she has a blockage.
HOLLY: Abby's mom is in the hospital.
That's tough.
It's hard to see your mother
in the hospital not being able to walk.
That's hard.
They haven't given her anything to eat,
she hasn't eaten in four days.
I really wish I could
be there with my mom,
but I have to be here.
I have a job to do.
These mothers have no idea
what sacrifices I make for them
and their children.
All of your other solos
are pretty and elegant.
This is not the case, yes?
Maddie is doing a contemporary
piece called "Disappear."
And it's about a child who's being abused
and eventually commits suicide.
You're being abused.
You want to disappear.
You don't want anyone else to know.
And you're finished and nobody knows
you exist and nobody cares.
It's a very mature piece.
Some would think it's too mature
for an eight-year-old.
But I think she's ready to handle this.
When they see you come out on stage
they should say, "Oh, my God,
that poor little girl."
MADDIE: I'm doing is a solo this week
and it's a very serious number.
Abby told me that my acting skills
have to be even more than my dance skills.
KELLY: Paige, you really have to work it.
That's the whole thing.
Use your attitude, be sexy.
Show Miss Abby that look,
I learned this cool dance without you.
That's what you need to show her.
The dance Mike was choreographing
had a lot of body movement in it.
It wasn't a lot of technique
and Paige just seemed a little tense.
So I kept trying to get her
to just loosen up and relax.
Your body should move with the music.
I think you're just scared of something.
I don't know if you're scared of yourself.
Or you're scared of Abby,
you're scared of this choreography
because it's new and like
not familiar to you.
He's right.
(tense music playing)
You can smell it from a mile away.
I'm not judging you.
Your mom's not judging you.
We just want you to do
the best that you can, okay?
(tense music playing)
(sighs)
Paige was so upset, she walked out
and locked herself in the bathroom.
I've never seen Paige like this.
(Paige crying)
I don't want to do it.
KELLY: Don't be upset.
Paige, I'm not going to let you do it,
if you're not ready.
I promise.
Paige is upset for a few reasons.
She's upset that Abby's going
to be disappointed in her
or mad at her for hiring
another choreographer.
And she's also upset that we have today
to learn the dance.
ABBY: Who wants a mediocre kid?
Every time one of my students
step on stage,
it's my name out there.
They are representing me.
But in this particular instance,
you know what?
Let Kelly go ahead.
Let her kids represent her.
Let's see where they get.
(Paige crying)
KELLY: You need to just chill out.
Have fun with it.
As soon as Paige stands on stage
and forgets the choreography again,
Kelly's going to regret her decision.
If you're not ready to do it tomorrow,
we just won't dance tomorrow, okay?
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: ...four, five, six, seven, eight.
Here we are rehearsing for iHollywood.
My girls are going to be performing
for big time casting agents.
I don't have time for Kelly's drama.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight.
(sighing)
God almighty.
Okay, you don't need be in here.
You don't need to be in here.
KELLY: Abby, I want my kids
to still be in the groups.
You can't do that. And you said,
then I'll go as an independent.
I'm doing the group dance
and I'm doing a solo as an independent.
It doesn't work that way.
You can't register as part of a group
and as an independent.
If you go as an independent,
then you're out.
I want to make it perfectly clear,
when I enter a competition,
those are my numbers.
Those are my routines.
I am not going to let Paige turn around
and do some other choreographer's routine
that I've never even seen before,
under my name.
Not going to happen.
I'm not going to put somebody on my stage
that I haven't even seen their dance,
under my name.
KELLY:
They love to be in the group numbers.
They want to be with their friends.
They want to be with you.
But if you do that,
then you're not a part of the group.
If you register your kids
as an independent,
they can't be part of the group.
Abby, alls I want is for my kids
to get good choreography.
For you to be unhappy
with your choreography is a joke.
I have done brilliant work for her,
adorable work.
People call me after the competitions,
"I want that music.
Oh, where did you get that costume?"
And now, suddenly she's going
to find something better?
-(intense music playing)
-KELLY: I don't know.
I mean, just that one little thing
to make them feel special.
But I wasn't put on this Earth
to make her feel special.
I was put on this Earth to make her dance.
Kelly just doesn't get it.
Her kids do not pick up quickly.
She thinks that if she had somebody
to work with her kids
every single week for a half an hour,
that their solos would be
winning like Maddie's.
And I taught her a great routine.
You didn't even look at it.
(dramatic music playing)
Right here, babe.
I'm taking Maddie to lunch
because Melissa's not around,
and all the moms are doing stuff
with their children.
So I thought we would go to lunch together
and talk about her career,
talk about what she wants in the future.
What else do you want to do?
You just keep winning everything.
I want to be on Broadway.
ABBY: You want to be on Broadway?
What about, like, here?
We're in LA.
Like, you don't think
you could be in a movie?
I really see Maddie having a future.
She could have her own television show.
You know, she has it all.
She has what it takes and she wants it.
You know, they put my mom
in the hospital in Florida.
-Did you hear that?
-Mm-hmm.
So I'm kind of missing her
like you're missing your mom.
My mom, the one and only
Maryen Lorrain is home.
-(laughter)
-Hey.
ABBY: I'm an only child.
So my mom and I, the two of us,
we're a team.
And we only have each other in this world.
That's it.
So it's very difficult for me
to be away from her.
I have find out how my mom is doing.
MADDIE: I'm sad that Abby's mom
is in the hospital.
It makes me miss my mom.
I don't know if she'll pick up.
They might have her
doing tests or something.
MARYEN (on phone): Hello?
Hey, Mom. How you doing?
MARYEN: Uh, so, so.
ABBY: So so?
MARYEN: I'm still in a little pain.
-Pain?
-MARYEN: My stomach is throbbing.
ABBY: It's still killing you?
MARYEN:
I've had a little water and that's it.
ABBY: They still haven't
given you anything to eat?
MARYEN: No.
ABBY: It's been a really rough day for me.
I think sometimes the moms
forget that I have a life, too,
and I don't need their crap.
I don't want to hear Kelly
complaining and whining
that she doesn't get special treatment.
Frankly, I've had it.
(upbeat music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
And remember what I always tell you.
When you walk off that stage,
the girl after you better think
it's the best performance of your life.
This is our last competition
before the big final Nationals
in Lake Tahoe.
So it's important as a group.
It's important to the kids.
It's important that they be seen.
(upbeat music playing)
We came, we saw, we kicked apples.
We've come all the way from Ohio to LA,
and I've put a lot of eggs
in one basket coming here.
I want to prove to Abby
that we are the better team.
Hmm.
I know. Let's go.
Opera boy and girl.
(vocalizing)
CATHY: Okay, hmm.
If Candy Apples and the Abby Lee
Dance Center clashed,
it could be like a boxing match.
I don't know.
Maybe it's something I can do.
Maybe it's something I need to do.
Surprise!
-Hi.
-WOMAN: Oh. Hello.
-CATHY: Hi, everybody.
-What are you doing here?
I have something for you.
ABBY: Are you, like, here in the hotel?
-Are you at the convention or the--
-CATHY: I am here in the hotel.
I don't like the hotel.
ABBY: Cathy walks into our dressing room.
Out of nowhere, like thin air,
she shows up.
And I'm like, "What are you doing here?"
I don't think that woman has
ever been out of Ohio before.
Suddenly, she's in LA?
CATHY: I do want to
introduce you to somebody.
This is Justice.
And I would like you
to be introduced to Taylor.
Taylor is a three time title winner.
Can you tell them what titles you've won?
Junior Miss Dynamite, Junior Miss KAR
and Junior Miss Nexstar.
CHRISTI: I guess Cathy
flew Taylor across country
to go head-to-head against Chloe.
God's sakes, leave my kid alone.
CATHY: Vivi and Justice are going
to be doing a duo together.
And I think, Mackenzie and Nia,
you guys are going to be
competing against them.
So that should be pretty interesting.
HOLLY: She was here to challenge us,
and to basically put our noses in, like,
"My kids will do better than you."
Surprised to see you here, Cathy.
CATHY: Yeah.
I thought you were with dance
for the season.
CATHY: Well, you know,
I'm here because I remember
a certain somebody told me to bring it on.
So consider it brought.
-KELLY: Let's bring your studio...
-CATHY: You know what?
-Bring it on, babe.
-KELLY: ...to a competition we go to.
-Bring it on! Bring it on!
KELLY: Bring It on, Cathy.
-ABBY: Cathy, you don't even come to LA.
-CATHY: Well--
ABBY: Like, you do all
those competitions in Ohio.
CATHY: Gosh. Here, wait,
let me pinch myself.
-I'm here.
-Well, it's--
CATHY: We've never done it before
so we wanted to try it
and, you know, just kind of kick around
a couple new pieces of choreography--
fresh choreography, not old, boring,
dated choreography.
I, on the other hand,
don't have the philosophy
of just keep using the same
tired stuff because it works.
ABBY: Then she started on my choreography.
Who does that to another professional?
Her daughter didn't know
her right foot from her left.
She could do a heel stretch
holding her leg the wrong way.
That's it.
I have kids working all over the place.
-I can walk into any club--
-And so we've heard.
-Yes.
And kids that are working, too.
-Name them.
-Okay.
Because I've never heard of one of them.
Well, I have Loris,
who is in New York City.
-Doing what?
-I have Matt--
-What show?
-Well--
-Tell me what Broadway show she's in.
-She's not in a Broadway show.
Failure!
(tense music playing)
You told me to bring it on.
So consider it brought.
Good luck.
Yeah, and take it all the way
back to Ohio, too.
Great. Now I have two traitors.
First it was Kelly and the choreographer,
now I have Cathy
and her rotten little apples.
I need to get it together and focus
on what I came here to do.
Make my kids' dreams come true.
Bring it on, girlfriend.
-Bring it on.
-ABBY: Chloe, we're going against them.
MADDIE: Bring it, Candy Apples.
Go.
CATHY: Vengeance is always fun.
Is it vengeance?
I would say it's artistic vengeance
because I want her to see
what Vivi's capable of.
(upbeat music playing)
KELLY: We only learned 30 seconds
of Paige's solo yesterday.
HOLLY: That's it? How did that person
work out, the choreographer?
We only got 30 seconds done,
so I don't know how in the world
we'll compete it.
HOLLY: How come you didn't finish it?
We ran out of time.
HOLLY: Oh.
How is that number, Paige?
Did you learn the whole thing?
Kelly made bad decisions.
Bad parenting, once again.
She's going to go behind my back,
try to bring in other choreographers,
and it backfired on her.
And now she's a mess
and doesn't know what to do.
KELLY: I hired this
choreographer yesterday.
ABBY: Right.
And they didn't have enough time
to finish their dances.
ABBY: You wanted an outside choreographer.
I know that, Abby.
You either need to pull out of the groups
and go as an independent
and do the numbers...
-KELLY: Yeah.
-...and prove me wrong.
-But if I was doing it--
-And they need--
they need you to beat
every other 13-year-old,
and she needs to beat Chloe and Maddie.
It's just blowing up in her face.
KELLY: (crying)
I'm not doing it to my kids.
I'm not.
Don't cry!
It's all your fault to begin with.
-Why can't you just be smart?
-Just pull the number.
ABBY: So Kelly pulls Paige's solo, again.
You know what, Kelly?
Make up your mind.
Do you want the kid to dance or don't you?
(upbeat music playing)
I don't mean to be holding your hand.
I just want to make sure that
everybody knows who you are.
Maddie is doing a very
controversial number.
I'm not sure who's judging, here.
I don't know if they're
going to feel the passion.
I don't know if she can make them cry.
You have been consistent.
You've been amazing.
You've inspired me to be a better teacher.
This is a really important.
Yes?
This could mean big things
for the rest of your life.
Yeah?
Got it?
Okay. So make sure that they know
that you can act.
I want them to feel bad
for the little girl.
I want them to see that abused child.
Yes?
And I don't want it to be controversial.
I want it to be so good
that they have to love it.
-Got it?
-Mm-hmm.
ABBY: You're making me cry.
How about if you do this dance
for Mrs. Miller?
Okay.
(somber music playing)
ABBY: I was very emotional.
And I looked at her and it just
brought tears to my eyes
and I welled up.
And I thought, "Kid, you can do this.
You have what it takes.
Go out there and just
perform this number."
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome,
from the Abby Lee Dance Company,
this is Maddie.
And she'll be performing "Disappear."
(cheering and applause)
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪ I think I'm drowning
but I don't know where the air is ♪
♪ Or which direction to go ♪
♪ Please get me out of here ♪
♪ So I can disappear ♪
♪ From the life I'm leading ♪
♪ I don't think they'll be
needing me anymore ♪
♪ Don't care if they're crying ♪
♪ This water is just like air ♪
(cheering and applause)
MADDIE: When I stepped off stage
I started to cry
because I was kind of sad that
my mom wasn't there to watch me.
(upbeat music playing)
CATHY: Smile, smile, smile.
I need to fluff that skirt before we go.
Where do we check in?
I've come here to rattle
the Abby Lee dancers.
And, honestly, we have to win.
We can't lose.
We cannot lose because
it can't backfire in my face.
-Do good and smile.
-Okay.
But, most importantly, have fun.
Have fun. Go.
VIVI-ANNE: I think I'm going
to beat Mackenzie and Nia
because they just do acro,
back bends and lunging.
ANNOUNCER: And now,
from Candy Apples Dance Studio in Ohio,
Vivi-Anne and Justice.
(upbeat music playing)
CATHY: Woo!
SINGER: ♪ Come on, baby,
put your dress shoes on ♪
♪ Gonna take you out
we're gonna have some fun ♪
♪ Come on, baby
hey, we're gonna rock and roll ♪
CATHY: Woo!
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: Is Abby Lee Miller really
supposed to be threatened by kids
from Candy Apple in Ohio?
For real?
My sister's going to take
those apples down.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
Nia and Mackenzie.
(applause)
(upbeat music playing)
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: Mackenzie and Nia
were good partnering.
I thought their skills
were great together.
I'm very proud of them.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Next, can we have
number three to the floor?
CATHY: So here's the big moment.
We are going to do the same song
that the Abby Lee Company
is using for Chloe.
And I'm feeling very confident.
ANNOUNCER: From Candy Apples
Dance Studio, it's Taylor.
(applause)
(dramatic music playing)
Oh, God!
Is that Chloe's music?
Same song.
SINGER: ♪ We won't stop ♪
♪ We won't... ♪
CHRISTI: Is that your music?
I'm backstage, helping Chloe change,
and I hear Chloe's music.
So I'm thinking,
is she supposed to be on stage?
Are they playing her music?
Did she miss her call?
Like, I'm very confused.
What's up?
That's your music.
(tense music playing)
Is that Chloe's music?
Same song.
CHRISTI: That's your music.
I'm backstage, helping Chloe
get ready for her solo,
and I hear Chloe's music playing.
I don't know.
So I'm thinking,
is she supposed to be on stage?
Are they playing her music?
Did she miss her call?
(cheering and applause)
They just played my music.
Did somebody just dance to Chloe's song?
Cathy's student.
CHLOE: I think Cathy purposely
did that to steal my thunder,
I guess, and to make it seem like
if we have the same music,
well, it depends on who's dancing better.
CHRISTI: I guess Cathy looked
up the schedule online,
saw Chloe's name, saw her music,
and decided to choreograph
something to it.
Who does that?
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
this is Chloe doing her number
to "Dream on a Star."
ABBY: Come on, kid. Come on.
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Hush, now ♪
♪ Don't speak ♪
♪ This is just the start ♪
♪ Words can't save us ♪
♪ Spinning in my heart ♪
Yes!
CHRISTI: As in watching Chloe dance,
more than anything,
I want her to come off that stage
and think to herself,
I did the best that I can do.
SINGER: ♪ Dream on a star ♪
ABBY: Come on, face!
CHRISTI: At this point it's about
Chloe's self-confidence.
And I wanted her to come off that stage
and feel good about herself.
ABBY: Push!
(applause)
SINGER: ♪ Dream, dream, dream ♪
ABBY: Yeah!
SINGER: ♪ Dream, dream ♪
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: Good girl.
(upbeat music playing)
KELLY: Okay. Well, we need to remember
what LaQuifa taught us.
CHRISTI: And it goes the same
for a sassy number,
as well as a pretty number.
You still have to own it.
ABBY: The stakes are really high.
We have to do well in Hollywood.
We have one more week
until the National conclusion
in Lake Tahoe.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
"My Pumps."
SINGER: ♪ Come on, girls ♪
♪ Do you believe in pumps? ♪
♪ 'Cause I got something to sing about ♪
♪ And it goes something like this ♪
♪ My pumps get me into it ♪
♪My pumps lift me up ♪
♪ My pumps take me up so high ♪
♪ I can never get enough ♪
HOLLY: So I'm watching the group number.
I'm worried, really, from the start
of the performance,
is Nia going to be able
to pull of the death drop.
SINGER: ♪ When I feel
a five inch heel, Lord Jesus ♪
♪ I am home ♪
♪ You can't bring me down ♪
♪ 'Cause I've got the shoes ♪
♪ To take away my blues ♪
♪ Pumps, pumps, pumps, pumps, pumps ♪
♪ My pumps ♪
♪ Pumps ♪
♪ Pumps, pumps, pumps, pumps ♪
♪ My pumps ♪
(cheering and applause)
Nia nailed the death drop,
and I thought that "My Pumps"
was super fabulicious.
(cheering and applause)
HOLLY: That's what I was worried about.
Will she nail it?
And she did.
I heard gasps in the audience.
The judges were like, "Wow."
If you're not prepared for it,
it's a shocker.
We'll begin our awards ceremony
with adjudications from our
pre-qualifying competition.
ABBY: The judging in iHollywood
is really intense.
This is an important competition for us,
not just because we're here in Hollywood
but because we're up against Candy Apples.
And there is no way that
I'm not going to beat Cathy.
(cheering and applause)
CATHY: There was suspense for me
because, honestly, we have to win.
We cannot lose.
Winning Duo/Trio Open
going to Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: I thought that Nia did a great job.
I think the two of them
worked well together.
And, newsflash, Vivi-Anne
and her little boy a partner--
where did they place?
ANNOUNCER: Junior Solos Oscar category...
going to Abby Lee Dance Company,
act number 33,
"Dream on a Star,"
with a first place title.
(cheering and applause)
CATHY: I know that I, you know,
boasted around to Abby
or put it out there that, you know,
we were going to have this huge battle.
So, really, I'm feeling upset
Taylor got beat.
(upbeat music playing)
Your top two scoring Oscar
Mini Soloists...
in second place,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
in the genre of lyrical routine,
"Disappear."
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: They announced Maddie
as second place.
My throat, like, closed up.
I was shocked, utterly shocked.
I looked at the three judges
who were giving out the awards
and thought, what were you thinking?
MADDIE: I thought I danced the best,
but I was still happy with second place.
When we went to another competition once,
the girl that was against me
didn't even make it in top 10.
And everybody gets a chance to win,
so I felt happy for the other girl.
Moving along to your top three scoring
Junior Oscar Small Groups.
In third place...
(tense music playing)
...from Abby Lee Dance Company
in the genre of open,
going to act number 50, "My Pumps."
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: I'm sitting there.
I get slapped in the face
with the Maddie thing,
then "My Pumps" gets third.
Third?
Unacceptable.
The Abby Lee Dance Company
does not place third
in an overall national competition.
No way, no shape, no how,
not going to happen.
And I really wanted a big one here
so that we would walk in
with our heads held high,
like we were on top of the world.
And now that didn't happen.
Here comes trouble.
You got it. Right?
Hi, guys. Congratulations.
KELLY: I think Cathy's an idiot.
She came to our studio,
wanted to be part of our team.
Obviously, her daughter
couldn't hang with us.
So she goes back home and comes
and competes against us here?
You know what, guys?
I can go home and fix
what my kids did wrong.
You can't fix (bleep).
KELLY: Well, you can't get
any better than first, Cathy.
ABBY: I cannot believe
that's a grown adult
that teaches children.
They think I'm bad?
CATHY: We may not have done as well
in Hollywood as I had hoped for,
but the Abby Lee Dance Company
has not seen the last
of my Candy Apples.
I want to say one thing.
I was very proud that
you stood on that stage,
you took that second, you smiled,
you had fun with your friends.
That even proved more of a professional
than winning all the time.
And, Kelly, out of all the crap
about the choreographers--
KELLY: All I want is for you
to make my kids feel like,
before they go on stage,
that you care that they do well.
-KELLY: I'm not a dance teacher.
-But, see you're enabling the stupidity.
You are enabling them
to not be able to go in
-and work on their own.
-KELLY: Okay, but--
ABBY: It's still a game.
And that's okay because
you keep telling them it's okay.
Then I'll tell you what,
I am here and my mother is in a hospital.
And I'm here with your kid.
CHRISTI: But I think what
you're missing, honestly,
because maybe you're not a mother,
is that these children crave your approval
-just like they do their mothers.
-ABBY: That's right.
-CHRISTI: They do.
-And I want them to keep craving it.
-That's fine. Let's just leave it at that.
-ABBY: There's other kids
that want to make a career out of it.
-KELLY: Keep throwing--
-ABBY: You want my undivided attention
but you don't want to be serious about it.
KELLY: Okay. Only reason
I brought a choreographer in
is because I want my kids
to get the special attention.
And you see where that got you.
KELLY: So let--let me not pay someone
to do it and have Gianna do it
the way she does it with Maddie.
-That's what I want.
-Maddie and Gianna have
-a special relationship.
-KELLY: That's what I want.
Well, I want to have somebody here
that has a special relationship
with my daughter,
to run her numbers the way
she runs them with Maddie.
I don't know. What did Kelly
give you for Christmas?
I don't need to buy Gianna
something for Christmas.
She's a (bleep) teacher!
That language is not allowed in my school.
I'm sorry, girls.
When we get to Lake Tahoe, that's it.
It's the end of the road for us.
Third?
How do we go from third to first
in a week on the road?